## Customer Support and User Experience

When the term User Experience comes into mind, most people think of well
designed user interfaces, intuitive navigation and the ease of finding
out the information needed. A well built customer support is usually
ignored unless the users happen to be facing major problems. There are
several reasons for this. Most of the time, a majority of the websites
we use have a given set of problems which the users regularly encounter
and they have a set of solutions printed in the FAQ sections. These do
not draw the ire of users for they are well below the threshold which
cause users real inconvenience. The solutions are also easily applicable
and the users are pacified in no time without having to contact someone
from the company.

One system where customer support plays a crucial role is password
reset. Usually when someone forgets their password, the common step
taken is to request for a password reset. I've done it several times
with github, hotmail and other websites I use. Despite having changed it
frequently, I have a tendency to forget my password and in such cases,
the reset is my saviour. However in August, something was wrong with my
instagram. The feed wasn't updating and it stayed that way for over a
week and so I decided the best way would be to sign out and sign in.
Simple right? Nope! Once I did sign out I realised I hadn't signed in
the app manually for over a year and so I had no clue what my password
was. No problem I decided, I would reset it and give a new password and
sign in easily. Turns out, that wasn't the case. I got a notification
that a reset email had been sent to me and so I waited. 10 minutes gone,
no email. I try once again. Nothing. Two days later, I check, Nothing. I
googled my problem. Turns out there were several hundred other users of
instagram who faced the same problem. Some had received their reset
links after a month(!) and several others had yet to receive. It was
disappointing to say the least. Some of these accounts were company
accounts, professional accounts that engaged their own customers over
instagram and they had no support to get their account back. This is not
just bad user experience but this is the loss of control over one's own
data.

At the time it was very frustrating. Not only could I not access my
account, I was in no way capable of contacting someone from instagram
who could help me retrieve my password and my data back. It's been a
nightmare. I can only imagine how hard it must have been for the
companies that rely on instagram for business.

This is a case of not only bad user experience but also a case where bad
UX can cause monetary losses and loss of customers for businesses.

It's been two months and counting. I've still not received my reset
link.

